# 3W

**Summary:** Promotes development of ML algorithms for early detection and classification of undesirable events in offshore oil wells.

| Parameter | Value |
| --- | --- |
| **Associated Tasks** | Regression |
| **Data Source** | Likely Both |
| **Dataset Characteristics** | Multivariate, Time-Series |
| **Date Donated** | 2022-04-06 |
| **Feature Type** | Likely Real |
| **Labeled** | Likely Yes |
| **Missing Values** | Information not available |
| **Name** | 3W |
| **Number of Features** | Information not available |
| **Number of Instances** | Information not available |
| **Source** | GitHub |
| **Time Series** | Likely Yes |

## Description

This is the first repository published by Petrobras on GitHub. It supports the 3W Project, which aims to promote experimentation and development of Machine Learning-based approaches and algorithms for specific problems related to detection and classification of undesirable events that occur in offshore oil wells.

The 3W Project is based on the 3W Dataset, a database described in a published paper, and on the 3W Toolkit, a software package that promotes experimentation with the 3W Dataset for specific problems. The name 3W was chosen because the dataset comprises instances from three different sources and includes undesirable events in oil wells.

Timely detection of undesirable events in oil wells can help prevent production losses, reduce maintenance costs, environmental accidents, and human casualties. Losses related to this type of events can reach 5% of production in certain scenarios, especially in areas such as Flow Assurance and Artificial Lifting Methods. Maintenance costs are also high, with maritime probe operations costing up to US $500,000 per day.

## Tags

Fault detection, Machine learning benchmark, Multivariate data, Oil and Gas, Oil wells, Sensor data, Time-series analysis

## References

- [GitHub](https://github.com/petrobras/3W/tree/main)
- [Project Description Paper](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.petrol.2019.106223)

[⬅️ Back to Index](../README.md)
