# Combined Cycle Power Plant

**Summary:** The dataset contains 9568 data points collected from a Combined Cycle Power Plant over 6 years (2006-2011), when the plant was set to work with full load.

| Parameter | Value |
| --- | --- |
| **Associated Tasks** | Regression |
| **Data Source** | Real |
| **Dataset Characteristics** | Multivariate |
| **Date Donated** | 2014-03-25 |
| **Feature Type** | Real |
| **Labeled** | Yes |
| **Missing Values** | No |
| **Name** | Combined Cycle Power Plant |
| **Number of Features** | 4 |
| **Number of Instances** | 9568 |
| **Source** | UCI Machine Learning Repository |
| **Time Series** | Likely |

## Description

The dataset contains 9568 data points collected from a Combined Cycle Power Plant over 6 years (2006-2011), when the power plant was set to work with full load. Features consist of hourly average ambient variables Temperature (T), Ambient Pressure (AP), Relative Humidity (RH) and Exhaust Vacuum (V) to predict the net hourly electrical energy output (EP) of the plant.

A combined cycle power plant (CCPP) is composed of gas turbines (GT), steam turbines (ST) and heat recovery steam generators. In a CCPP, the electricity is generated by gas and steam turbines, which are combined in one cycle, and is transferred from one turbine to another. While the Vacuum is collected from and has effect on the Steam Turbine, the other three ambient variables affect the GT performance.

For comparability with baseline studies, and to allow 5x2 fold statistical tests to be carried out, the data is provided shuffled five times. For each shuffling, 2-fold cross-validation is carried out and the resulting 10 measurements are used for statistical testing. Data is available in .ods and .xlsx formats.

## Tags

Ambient Variables, Combined Cycle Power Plant, Electrical Energy Output, Gas Turbine, Real-valued features, Regression, Steam Turbine

## References

- [Prediction of full load electrical power output of a base load operated combined cycle power plant using machine learning methods - Semantic Scholar](https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/f164ee353ada936ef97d0d379f8581336ddc9733)
- [UCI Machine Learning Repository DOI](https://doi.org/10.24432/C5002N)
- [Combined Cycle Power Plant dataset at UCI Machine Learning Repository](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Combined+Cycle+Power+Plant)

[⬅️ Back to Index](../README.md)
